README.md, before:

# Kin_Coding_Challenge
My coding challenge for Kin.


# User Story 1
Kin has just recently purchased an ingenious machine to assist in reading policy report documents.
The machine scans the paper documents for policy numbers, and produces a file with a number of
entries which each look like this:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _
| _| _||_||_ |_ ||_||_|
||_ _| | _||_| ||_| _|
Each entry is 4 lines long, and each line has 27 characters. The first 3 lines of each entry contain a
policy number written using pipes and underscores, and the fourth line is blank. Each policy
number should have 9 digits, all of which should be in the range 0-9. A normal file contains around
500 entries.
Your first task is to write a program that can take this file and parse it into actual numbers.

## Notes
I have User Story 1 completed of sorts. Having trouble trying to get it to read the mixed numbers and the sample text file itself.


# User Story 2
Having done that, you quickly realize that the ingenious machine is not in fact infallible. Sometimes
it goes wrong in its scanning. So the next step is to validate that the numbers you read are in fact
valid policy numbers. A valid policy number has a valid checksum. This can be calculated as
follows:
policy number: 3 4 5 8 8 2 8 6 5
position names: d9 d8 d7 d6 d5 d4 d3 d2 d1
checksum calculation:
(d1+(2*d2)+(3*d3)+...+(9*d9)) mod 11 = 0
Your second task is to write some code that calculates the checksum for a given number, and
identifies if it is a valid policy number.


## Notes
I don't really understand the concept of checksum. This is pretty new for me and I've never actually done any work with that in real life.


# User Story 3
Your boss is keen to see your results. They ask you to write out a file of your findings, one for each
input file, in this format:
457508000
664371495 ERR
86110??36 ILL
ie the file has one policy number per row. If some characters are illegible, they are replaced by a ?.
In the case of a wrong checksum (ERR), or illegible number (ILL), this is noted in a second column
indicating status.
Third task: write code that creates this file in the desired output.


## Notes




# User Story 4
It turns out that often when a number comes back as ERR or ILL it is because the scanner has failed
to pick up on one pipe or underscore for one of the figures. For example
_ _ _ _ _ _ _
|_||_|| || ||_ | | ||_
| _||_||_||_| | | | _|
The 9 could be an 8 if the scanner had missed one |. Or the 0 could be an 8. Or the 1 could be a 7.
The 5 could be a 9 or 6. So your next task is to look at numbers that have come back as ERR or
ILL, and try to guess what they should be, by adding or removing just one pipe or underscore. If
there is only one possible number with a valid checksum, then use that. If there are several options,
the status should be AMB. If you still can't work out what it should be, the status should be reported
ILL.
Your final task is to write code that does the guess work described above to remove as many ERR
and ILL as can safely be done.

## Notes

Commit message:

Adding notes and updating the ReadMe file

README.md, after:

# Kin_Coding_Challenge
My coding challenge for Kin.


# User Story 1
Kin has just recently purchased an ingenious machine to assist in reading policy report documents.
The machine scans the paper documents for policy numbers, and produces a file with a number of
entries which each look like this:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _
| _| _||_||_ |_ ||_||_|
||_ _| | _||_| ||_| _|
Each entry is 4 lines long, and each line has 27 characters. The first 3 lines of each entry contain a
policy number written using pipes and underscores, and the fourth line is blank. Each policy
number should have 9 digits, all of which should be in the range 0-9. A normal file contains around
500 entries.
Your first task is to write a program that can take this file and parse it into actual numbers.

## Notes
I have User Story 1 completed of sorts. Having trouble trying to get it to read the mixed numbers and the sample text file itself.
I do believe I am missing the "?" part of the notes that were left in the pdf.


# User Story 2
Having done that, you quickly realize that the ingenious machine is not in fact infallible. Sometimes
it goes wrong in its scanning. So the next step is to validate that the numbers you read are in fact
valid policy numbers. A valid policy number has a valid checksum. This can be calculated as
follows:
policy number: 3 4 5 8 8 2 8 6 5
position names: d9 d8 d7 d6 d5 d4 d3 d2 d1
checksum calculation:
(d1+(2*d2)+(3*d3)+...+(9*d9)) mod 11 = 0
Your second task is to write some code that calculates the checksum for a given number, and
identifies if it is a valid policy number.


## Notes
I don't really understand the concept of checksum. 
This is pretty new concept for me and I've never actually done any work with checksum and wouldn't know how to get it to work.


# User Story 3
Your boss is keen to see your results. They ask you to write out a file of your findings, one for each
input file, in this format:
457508000
664371495 ERR
86110??36 ILL
ie the file has one policy number per row. If some characters are illegible, they are replaced by a ?.
In the case of a wrong checksum (ERR), or illegible number (ILL), this is noted in a second column
indicating status.
Third task: write code that creates this file in the desired output.


## Notes
I wasn't able to get to this user story as I took my time trying to get User Story 1 to as close as completed as possible. 
I am still trying to get back into the swing of things as it has been awhile since I've done code work. 
Please excuse my lack of completing all of the user stories.



# User Story 4
It turns out that often when a number comes back as ERR or ILL it is because the scanner has failed
to pick up on one pipe or underscore for one of the figures. For example
_ _ _ _ _ _ _
|_||_|| || ||_ | | ||_
| _||_||_||_| | | | _|
The 9 could be an 8 if the scanner had missed one |. Or the 0 could be an 8. Or the 1 could be a 7.
The 5 could be a 9 or 6. So your next task is to look at numbers that have come back as ERR or
ILL, and try to guess what they should be, by adding or removing just one pipe or underscore. If
there is only one possible number with a valid checksum, then use that. If there are several options,
the status should be AMB. If you still can't work out what it should be, the status should be reported
ILL.
Your final task is to write code that does the guess work described above to remove as many ERR
and ILL as can safely be done.

## Notes
I wasn't able to get to this user story as I took my time trying to get User Story 1 to as close as completed as possible. 
I am still trying to get back into the swing of things as it has been awhile since I've done code work. 
Please excuse my lack of completing all of the user stories.

# How I ran my tests
Within the console after opening the file in VS Code I did a quick `bundle/bundle` update on the 
project folder that way all the gems are up to date.

From there you will need to run a simple `rspec spec/` to test all the spec files that were created.
You might see a deprecation warning. But that is beacuse I am using what I still remember from before. 
I will need to look up some information on updating the tests that way the warnings can go away.


Again...I apologize for not completing to the best of my ability on the rest of the user stories. 
There is still a lot that I need to learn and hopefully I can learn with this team.
